Good day, i'm Norman wildberger and today we're
going to talk about areas of polygons and we're
going to use the formula that we derived for the
oriented triangles signed area so i remind you
that if we have three points a 1 a 2 a 3 then
we can go around those 3 points in essentially
two different ways we can go in this direction
around or we can go in this direction around and
that gives us two possible oriented triangles
triangle a 1 a 2 a 3 with a full arrow over it
means this orientation while a 1 a 3 a 2 with
a full arrow over it means this orientation
i emphasized the full arrow because last time
i used a half arrow like a vector sign i want
to change that we want to use a full arrow to
denote an oriented triangle and i also point
out that there's a subtle difference between
this notion and that of a triangle in that for
an oriented triangle we do not require the three
points to be distinct and we do not require that
they be non collinear so the three points
can be completely arbitrary they can even
all three coincide we'll still talk about an
oriented triangle now suppose that we have a
points a one with coordinates x-one y-one a
two with coordinates x-two y-two and a three
with coordinates x 3 y 3 then the signed area
of the orient of triangle a1 a2 a3 is given by
this expression it involves the coordinates in
a cyclical pleasant way involving six terms the
first two terms x1 y2 minus x2 y1 only depend
on these two points the next two terms x 2 y
3 minus X 3 y 2 only depend on those two points
now the last 2 X 3 y 1 minus X 1 y 3 only depend
on these two points it's easy to check that if
we change the orientation of the triangle then
the sign of the signed area changes that's why
it's called a signed area so a signed area can
be either positive or negative depending on
the orientation we choose and here's a very
interesting observation I've already pointed out
that this signed area really only depends on three
quantities which are each associated two pairs
of points so we'll write that this signed area
is the signed area of a1 a2 plus signed area of a2
a3 plus the signed area of a3 a1 where these three
terms correspond to this pair / to this pair / -
and this parent / - respectively this will be a
very useful way of extending the notion of signed
area from triangles to regular polygons so we've
introduced this new notation a1 a2 with a full
arrow over it not a half arrow which we'll use
for the vector notation but rather a full arrow
this is an oriented side and what that means is
it's a list of two points a 1 followed by a 2 the
square brackets denote a list as opposed to a set
so the two points can agree or be distinct it
doesn't matter that's what an oriented side is
and what we call the signed area of the oriented
side is explicitly given by this so in terms of
the coordinates of a1 a2 its x1 y2 minus x2 y1
all over 2 and it also has the interpretation of
a signed area of a triangle namely if we take the
origin o the point with coordinates 0 0 then the
oriented triangle a 1 a 2 O has a signed area and
that's exactly given by this expression because
the other four terms are all 0 if we choose the
origin as the third point so we've defined a no
notion of us oriented side and we've defined
the signed area of an oriented side consisting
of just two points and using this notation we can
write the area of an oriented triangle as a sum of
three side areas of oriented sides so how are we
going to use that for say a quadrangle quadrangle
means four points A one A two A three a four and
we'll assume that this quadrangle is oriented in
the same way that the triangle is namely we have
a specified order in which we traverse around the
four points cyclically so this one a 1 a 2 a 3 a
4 in this direction that's the oriented quadrangle
which will denote like that now this object can be
divided into two triangles by say a diagonal line
like that and then if we look at the or the signed
area of this oriented triangle a 1 a 2 a 3 and add
to it the signed area of the Orient of triangle
a 1 a 3 a 4 then we have 3 oriented sides for the
first triangle and another 3 oriented sides for
the second triangle and when we add up the side
areas of all those six things the two middle guys
cancel because they have opposite directions and
then we end up just with the signed area of this
side the area of this side the area of this side
and the area of this side a 1 a 2 a 2 a 3 a 3 a 4
a 4 a 1 and then it's not hard to see that that's
exactly the same thing that we would have gotten
if we had divided our quadrangle into two with a
diagonal going in the opposite way so in other
words is the same as the oriented has a signed
area of the oriented triangle a 1 a 2 a 4 plus
the signed area of the oriented triangle a 2 a
3 a 4 so this is our key for the general case so
suppose we have an oriented polygon that means
we have n points in the plane and we choose an
orientation for those endpoints that means a 1
is followed by a 2 which is followed by a 3 all
the way up to a N and then a n is by a1 again
so we're going around the polygon in that order
now I point out that the polygon itself doesn't
have to be actually convex but these points can be
anywhere they want to be and we're just going from
one point to another point in this specified order
so we define the signed area of this oriented
polygon in analogy with that of the signed area
of Nouri entered triangle it's the area of the
side a1 a2 the area of the side a 2 a 3 and so on
up to the area of the side a and a1 each of these
sides including the last one joint or the first
one contributes let's look at an example here is
a polygon with five points a 1 a 2 a 3 a 4 a 5 and
we're interested in going around this way that by
the way is usually called the negative direction
usually because it's a clockwise direction usually
we denote the counterclockwise direction is the
positive orientation and this one is the negative
orientation so we expect to find a negative area
because of that orientation but let's see what
happens here are the coordinates of the six points
a 1 is 3 6 a 2 is 7 5 a 3 is 7 1 a 4 is 2 2 and a
5 is 1 4 then the signed area of the sign a 1
a 2 how do we compute it it's 3 times 5 minus
7 times 6 all divided by 2 that's minus 27 over
to the signed area of the side a 2 a 3 7 times 1
minus 7 times 5 all over 2 that's minus 14 we
keep going the last one is the signed area of
the side a 5 a 1 so now we have to go 1 times
6 minus 3 times 4 all over 2 that's minus 3 so
there are 5 such terms and when we add them all
up we get minus 43 over 2 and is the signed area
of this oriented polygon we'll see later on that
this formulation of signed area naturally lends
itself to calculus and the study of areas under
graphs of relations or functions but next time
we want to have a look at another elementary
topic the topic of translations rotations and
reflections and how to define those properly
in an elementary way also not as easy as it
first appears I hope you'll join me for that
i am Norman Wildberger thanks for listening